---
layout:     post
title:      Hong Sang-soo - On the Occasion of Remembering the Turning Gate (2002)
rym-rating: 4
rym-link:   https://rateyourmusic.com/film/%EC%83%9D%ED%99%9C%EC%9D%98_%EB%B0%9C%EA%B2%AC/
---
The title of the movie is based on a myth, expounded in the film itself, of a commoner who falls in love with the emperor's daughter. As a result, he is executed, but comes back as a snake and winds around her. The princess then tells the snake that she will be go to a temple and be back with food, but once she enters, she does not come out. The snake begins to enter the temple, but is frightened by the lightning and rain, and turns around at the gate. And so the gate, while completely static, is named the Turning Gate.
 
I like to think of Hong Sang-soo as a master of exploring the  repetitive, almost kaleidoscopic patterns that arise from the mundane details of everyday life. Really, truly – I would go even so far as to describe his films as sort of psychedelic. Less of an all-out surrealism but more like that strange area between sobriety and the psychedelic, where things seem slightly out of place, enough to make you double take, but you only notice perhaps because of the anticipation of the full effects. 

And there is something special about these looping structures, which the films sort of spiral around. The characters seem not to be fully aware of their fate – I guess at when you deal with life as it comes, you see the coincidences, but you do not get to map it out on a larger scale, and see the more general pattern. They seem lost a loop, but the experience is different than the connotation implies. It is sort of a sublime convergence onto certain things, the characters living richly – lost in life itself, if you will – but coming back to the same things regardless of their direction, as though it could be no other way, as though it was a simple fact of life.

It makes one wonder to what degree you fit that same pattern. I’m a man of repetition – I eat the same things nearly every day, go to the gym at the same time, go to work, etc. Of course, I do various things outside of that base structure, like going to concerts or out to bars here and there. What is concerning is not the conscious repetition, but whether my excursions – my attempt to inject new things into my pattern of living – also converge upon the cyclical. 

I suppose they do. Yes, and in the same way and manner as Kim Sang-kyung, now that I think about it. But its not like I do it intentionally, just things, as mentioned, seemed to repeat the same pattern. What is one to do? What can one due but to embrace that fate, for it can be no other. Just continue to do all what one will, doing your best to enjoy getting lost in life’s trip, taking the turns as they come. It’s not even until the pattern ends its iteration do we, perhaps, have insight into seeing its entire path, this time around, traced about. I guess that is the nature of these proverbial turning gates – by definition we only see them when looking back at when we turned around on our way to go about it all again.