---
layout:     post
title:      Frederick Wiseman - High School (1968)
---
A series of Wiseman films were shown at the local indie cinema. After being quite impressed by Titicut Follies, I was pretty hyped to see this one, which was playing over the weekend. I walked all the way there only to find out that it wasn’t playing – only now some months later have I finally gotten around to watching the film.

The premise of [Film2989] is quite simple - an exploration of Northeast Highschool in 1968. We are treated with a variety of scenes: to the rehearsal of a fashion show with the teacher-organizer explaining to the students the fine points of, well, grace and finesse; a nerdy guy with glasses complaining about a detention mistakenly received; sexual education classes; people talking about how they hate everyone at the school; etc.

When watching Wiseman, it feels almost like a historical documentary. I mean, it is in a sense now, a true portrait of how things were in highschool back in ‘68, but even if I was watching it then, I think I would feel the same way. He has a way of capturing both the individual – sometimes even zooming in on particular features, whether it be the mother concerning rubbing the side of the chair while the father talks to the teacher about the daughter’s academic performance – or the zoomed in on the mouth-breathing lips of the nerd pleading his case on his unjust detention that was the result of a teacher lashing out against him when it was others in the class making the trouble. But that sort of degree of empathy is a mere flourish on the overall objective stance of the film, which ultimately captures these characters in the role they play – in the time and place and setting they seem to be set in, regardless if it is the absurdity of the unjust system coming down on the weirdo in glasses or the fashion teacher seemingly in her element as she explains to the girls what way of walking and dressing becomes a young lady.

Looking back, I like to imagine the scene at the cinema when I tried to get the ticket for High School, through Wiseman’s eyes. A shot behind me a good bit, catching the backs of the couple of people in the lobby hanging around before a film starts, or having just exited the film. Brief close ups on my confused face as I try to explain that the film was supposed to show today, or did I misread the website – zooming in on the hand of the cashier rhythmically scratching and fiddling at the side of the register as he slowly states that it may be at a different theater. The pan then zoom to a man on a bench, in between me and the cashier but in the background, observing us in a detached sort of manner. He almost seems to be looking directly at the camera. Wiseman would have zoomed in on that face I think, perhaps through him he could see, and film, in some way, himself. I mean, after all, he too was on scene, in that time and place – part of the coincidental beauty of it all.

Cut to credits.